---
layout: base.njk
basedir: ../..
title: "Trade Use Cases"
description: "Learn how verifiable credentials enable supply chain transparency, product authenticity, and trusted commerce in global trade networks."
---

<div class="hero">
  <div class="container">
    <h1>Trade Use Cases</h1>
    <p>
Enabling trusted commerce through supply chain transparency, product
authenticity verification, and efficient trade documentation that reduces
fraud and improves global trade efficiency.
    </p>
  </div>
</div>

<section class="content-section">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="section-title">Transparent and Trustworthy Trade</h2>
    <p class="section-subtitle">
Verifiable credentials provide transparency and trust in complex global
supply chains by enabling cryptographic verification of product origins,
certifications, and trade documentation. This technology helps businesses
and consumers make informed decisions while reducing fraud and counterfeiting.
    </p>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="content-section">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="section-title">Common Use Cases</h2>
    <div class="feature-grid">
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Supply Chain Transparency</h3>
        <p>
Track products from origin to consumer with verifiable credentials that
document each step in the supply chain, including manufacturing, quality
testing, and transportation milestones.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Product Authenticity</h3>
        <p>
Verify the authenticity of goods through digital certificates that prove
origin, manufacturing standards, and compliance with quality regulations,
reducing counterfeiting and fraud.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Trade Documentation</h3>
        <p>
Digital trade documents including bills of lading, certificates of origin,
and customs declarations that can be verified instantly by trading partners
and regulatory authorities.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Sustainability Certificates</h3>
        <p>
Verifiable credentials that document sustainable practices, fair trade
compliance, and environmental certifications throughout the supply chain to
support responsible consumption.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Quality Assurance</h3>
        <p>
Digital certificates that verify quality testing results, safety
inspections, and compliance with industry standards from certified testing
laboratories and inspection agencies.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Customs and Compliance</h3>
        <p>
Streamlined customs processing through verifiable trade credentials that
prove compliance with import/export regulations, reducing delays and
administrative overhead.
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="content-section">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="section-title">Benefits for Businesses</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
<strong>Reduced Fraud</strong> - Cryptographic verification makes it
extremely difficult to forge trade documents or misrepresent product origins
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Faster Processing</strong> - Digital credentials enable instant
verification of trade documents, reducing delays in customs and border
processing
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Supply Chain Visibility</strong> - Track products and materials
throughout the entire supply chain with verifiable documentation
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Compliance Assurance</strong> - Demonstrate compliance with trade
regulations, quality standards, and sustainability requirements
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Risk Management</strong> - Identify and mitigate supply chain risks
through transparent and verifiable documentation
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="content-section">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="section-title">Benefits for Consumers</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
<strong>Product Authenticity</strong> - Verify that products are genuine and
meet claimed quality and safety standards
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Ethical Sourcing</strong> - Confirm that products are sourced
ethically and sustainably through verifiable supply chain documentation
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Safety Assurance</strong> - Access verified safety and quality
testing results for products, especially food and pharmaceutical items
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Informed Choices</strong> - Make purchasing decisions based on
transparent and verifiable information about product origins and practices
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Recall Efficiency</strong> - Quickly identify affected products in
case of recalls through precise supply chain tracking
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="content-section">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="section-title">Industry Applications</h2>
    <div class="feature-grid">
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Food and Agriculture</h3>
        <p>
Track food products from farm to table with verifiable credentials
documenting organic certification, safety inspections, and transportation
conditions.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Pharmaceuticals</h3>
        <p>
Ensure drug authenticity and safety through verifiable manufacturing
records, quality testing results, and cold chain documentation.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Textiles and Apparel</h3>
        <p>
Verify fair trade practices, sustainable materials, and manufacturing
conditions in the global textile supply chain.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="feature-card">
        <h3>Electronics</h3>
        <p>
Document component authenticity, conflict mineral compliance, and
environmental certifications for electronic products.
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="content-section">
  <div class="container">
    <h2 class="section-title">Standards and Implementation</h2>
    <p>
Organizations across industries are implementing verifiable credential
systems for trade and supply chain applications using established standards:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
<strong>UN Transparency Protocol (UNTP)</strong> - United Nations initiative
to enhance supply chain transparency and combat greenwashing using digital
verification technologies including verifiable credentials
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>US Customs and Border Protection</strong> - Government agency
exploring digital trade documents using verifiable credentials to streamline
border processing and improve security
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Trade Associations</strong> - Industry groups are developing
verifiable credential standards for supply chain transparency and product
authentication
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Certification Bodies</strong> - Organizations issuing quality,
safety, and sustainability certifications are implementing verifiable
credential systems
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Logistics Companies</strong> - Shipping and logistics providers are
using verifiable credentials to document transportation and handling
conditions
      </li>
      <li>
<strong>Retailers</strong> - Major retailers are requiring suppliers to
provide verifiable credentials documenting product origins and compliance
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</section>